Dr. Figg: Okay, we're going to do the intake for Alexander
Dr. Figg: Hi there. Can you hear me.
Alex’s iPhone: Hi there. Yeah, I can.
Dr. Figg: Wonderful. Good morning. I'm Dr. Phil, how are you doing
Alex’s iPhone: Pretty good about yourself.
Dr. Figg: Thank you so much. So we're doing your intake today.
Dr. Figg: For some kind of history by understanding of opiate dependence reputation.
Dr. Figg: You see, you know, all of our sessions we record, just so that we can take our nuts and otherwise they stay
Alex’s iPhone: Okay.
Dr. Figg: How can I help you today.
Alex’s iPhone: Well, so I just joined this new insurance and
Alex’s iPhone: I instantly started looking for intensive outpatient programs to
Alex’s iPhone: Try and
Alex’s iPhone: get a handle on my opiate addiction.
Alex’s iPhone: Though I have been using pretty significantly. For the past, I'd say maybe two years.
Alex’s iPhone: Yeah, and it's been a huge obstruction for everything in my life and every relationship and everything. And I'm just trying to find a program. And, you know, some way to get through it.
Dr. Figg: Okay. All right.
Dr. Figg: You talked about that. It's getting in the way of stuff relationships. Is it bothering your ability to hold a job.
Alex’s iPhone: He. I mean, yeah. So essentially, I just, I, I had been holding down this job for about a year and I just had to resign from it pretty much because of this okay though. Yeah, kind of saying
Dr. Figg: Okay, so you talked about. It's been worse in the past two years. When did you start using opiates.
Alex’s iPhone: Or
Alex’s iPhone: Two years ago, when I got into a relationship with somebody and I was just so infatuated with them. I honestly didn't even think anything of
Alex’s iPhone: Any sort of usage, because I've never really like dealt with addiction before like addiction to like an actual substance like like that. So I don't think it, I kind of thought.
Alex’s iPhone: I think that I thought that I was like about that. I didn't have to worry about it. But it crept up on me pretty fucking hard and
Dr. Figg: What have you been using
Alex’s iPhone: Heroin
Dr. Figg: Okay. Okay. And how are you using heroin.
Alex’s iPhone: So be it.
Dr. Figg: Okay. Okay. Any other ways.
Alex’s iPhone: No, no, I'm I'm I'm horrified of needles. So I would never, I would never do that. But
Alex’s iPhone: In smoking a lot though.
Dr. Figg: And did you visit heroin, you started with two years ago.
Alex’s iPhone: It was actually oxy cotton but heroin was a lot cheaper.
Dr. Figg: Okay and. Were you smoking oxy cotton.
Yeah.
Alex’s iPhone: Okay.
Dr. Figg: And so what what has happened over the past
Dr. Figg: In the way or amount that you use.
Alex’s iPhone: It's only dying worse, honestly.
Alex’s iPhone: It my habit probably cost me around $1,000 a week now.
Dr. Figg: Wow, that's really expensive.
Alex’s iPhone: Yeah. Trust me. I'm well aware.
Dr. Figg: Okay, if
Alex’s iPhone: Every single cent that I made pretty much went to this so i just i can't i can't afford to live like that anymore but
Alex’s iPhone: And yeah.
Dr. Figg: And how much have you been using recently in a day.
Alex’s iPhone: I'm anywhere from one to two grams, honestly.
Dr. Figg: To cost you about $1,000 a week. How many hours do you spend in a day, either using or trying to get it.
Oh god.
Alex’s iPhone: Way more than I want to probably anywhere from like one to five, if I'm being honest, like some days it takes a long time. I gotta
Alex’s iPhone: Take Bart out an hour somewhere and then fucking walk somewhere else and then do all this shit and some days only takes an hour but way more of my time than I ever like to admit, honestly. All right.
Dr. Figg: Have you had any health problems related to use
Alex’s iPhone: No, I haven't.
Dr. Figg: Has the effect that you've been getting from it decreased over time.
Alex’s iPhone: Hey, yes, absolutely 100% so
Dr. Figg: Have you ever had times where you didn't use heroin for a day.
Alex’s iPhone: Yeah, yep, there were times when I like couldn't get it and stuff. And yeah.
Dr. Figg: After. How about how long do you go into withdrawal.
Alex’s iPhone: How long does it take about 24 hours and then I can't even stand. Okay.
Dr. Figg: And tell me about your withdrawal. What kind of things do you feel what happens
Well God
Alex’s iPhone: My stomach goes crazy. I feel like I'm having the worst fever of my life, my bones her fucking sorry I crystal. I'm sorry. Um,
Alex’s iPhone: It's honestly just horrible. I feel like I'm
Alex’s iPhone: It's like, I can't actually lay still. And every, every, anything that I feel it's just it's just amplified like 100% and
Alex’s iPhone: It's just, it's it's horrible. I pretty much do anything to get out of it. And that's what I realized about my own mentality. Like if when I'm sitting here and I have no money, my brains to try to calculate ways to try and get something to like get through it and
Dr. Figg: Yeah. When's the last time you used any hero.
Alex’s iPhone: Like 24 hours go okay
Dr. Figg: 24 hours ago. So you're expecting to or have started going into withdrawal.
Yeah.
Alex’s iPhone: Right.
Dr. Figg: And have you had any legal problems because of your use.
Alex’s iPhone: Um,
Alex’s iPhone: So, it
Alex’s iPhone: I have, I have had, like, some legal issues, but they weren't. It wasn't really related to that.
Alex’s iPhone: And they're all every all of that is it's all fixed now.
Alex’s iPhone: Like I did all my court sessions party service all that shit I'm
Dr. Figg: Asking because I'm not the police, I'm not reporting anyone. I'm just trying to understand how this affects you.
Alex’s iPhone: Because it helps you better
Okay.
Dr. Figg: All right, let's, let's talk about some of the other medical things that we need to talk about are you allergic to anything.
Alex’s iPhone: No. No. Okay.
Dr. Figg: Have you had any surgeries.
Alex’s iPhone: No.
Dr. Figg: Okay, do you take any other medications.
Alex’s iPhone: Know,
Dr. Figg: You have any other health conditions.
Nope.
Dr. Figg: And when we think about family history. We think about mom, dad, brother, sisters, just the immediate family, thats related to you. Does anybody have any major health problems.
Alex’s iPhone: No, or really
Dr. Figg: Anybody have any addiction problems either drugs or alcohol.
Alex’s iPhone: In my immediate family, no. Okay. All right.
Dr. Figg: Are you still in that relationship that you talked about that you were you started
Alex’s iPhone: You know, okay, all right.
Dr. Figg: And
Let's see.
Dr. Figg: What kind of gone
Alex’s iPhone: Sorry.
Dr. Figg: What kind of job. Did you hold
Alex’s iPhone: I was server a business or for seven years.
Dr. Figg: Okay, all right, server at a restaurant. Okay. All right. And do you drink any alcohol.
Alex’s iPhone: Very minimal. I've never really been a drinker.
Alex’s iPhone: So no, not really. Okay.
Dr. Figg: Have you ever had problems with alcohol in the past.
No.
Dr. Figg: And by a by law. I'm required to pull a state prescription database and controlled substances, when we, when we do things like this. So I see back in last year early last year. All right, about a year ago, it looks like your tree with Adderall.
Alex’s iPhone: Oh yeah. Yep. I have a I was shooting with Adderall and Xanax
Alex’s iPhone: I have like
Dr. Figg: mixing that with the heroin.
Alex’s iPhone: Oh, no.
Dr. Figg: No I misunderstood you that I apologize.
Alex’s iPhone: No, no, I wasn't mixing those I did have prescriptions. I don't. Was it
Alex’s iPhone: Feels like it was more than a year ago, but um
Alex’s iPhone: Yeah, no, I never, I never really like
Alex’s iPhone: Mixed anything. Though honestly to me. Those are just like those are really just medicines, because
Alex’s iPhone: I mean, if I take something like Xanax, it just gets me to a place where I can like function.
Alex’s iPhone: As opposed to like a normal person who is already like leveled out if they take it and like kind of brings them down a little bit me. I'm like, I have such high anxiety that if I take Xanax, or if I like anything like that. It just, it just makes me functional
Alex’s iPhone: Sounds
Alex’s iPhone: Good, yeah. Sorry.
Dr. Figg: Are you still taking damage.
Alex’s iPhone: No. Nope.
Dr. Figg: So, and have you ever taken Suboxone or buprenorphine before
Alex’s iPhone: I have. I've taken Suboxone before. I've never had a prescription for it, but I've taken it before.
Alex’s iPhone: Yeah.
Dr. Figg: Tell me, tell me about in the past when you use Suboxone
Alex’s iPhone: Usually it's, you know, when I when I couldn't get my hands on something.
Alex’s iPhone: It.
Alex’s iPhone: It definitely definitely helped the whole situation like it definitely made the withdrawal symptoms like a little bit less intense and just kind of
Alex’s iPhone: Help through. I think maybe
Alex’s iPhone: Maybe like three or four times I've like really tried to kick this and get clean and I've like I've white knuckled it before and I think I've used Suboxone like three times trying to do it and just without that like
Alex’s iPhone: That's kind of why I was looking for, like, a group or something like that, that it was like a little more support than just
Alex’s iPhone: Being able to get some Suboxone
Alex’s iPhone: So it definitely helped
Alex’s iPhone: I mean, I can't really think of any other option is to how to get through this. So,
Dr. Figg: Um, have you ever been to, or thought of going to an A or a meetings.
Alex’s iPhone: Um,
Alex’s iPhone: I have never been, I've never been to an NA NA meeting and no I guess I've never really thought about it because I've never really
Alex’s iPhone: Tried sobriety. Like, if that makes any sense. Okay.
Dr. Figg: And you said in the past, a few times you've tried to stop and white knuckle
Alex’s iPhone: I take it that means right. I'm sorry.
Dr. Figg: That you quit cold turkey, you just start
Alex’s iPhone: Yeah yeah
Dr. Figg: Where you ran out and decided I'm going to use this as an opportunity to quit.
Dr. Figg: Pretty much. Okay. All right. But you haven't previously been in any kind of treatment or recovery programs.
Know,
Dr. Figg: Just making sure I understand. Okay, so
Dr. Figg: Let's talk about Suboxone because that's the primary medicine that we use to help people with this.
Dr. Figg: When we think about opiates like heroin. We. Those are called full agonist opiates, which means the effects that they have on your brain. It's like flipping a switch all the way on
Dr. Figg: The things that they cause, the cause pleasure and a reinforcement of the desire to seek that pleasure. That's the higher the euphoria.
Dr. Figg: They decrease pain they decrease your wakefulness your consciousness. They can knock you out if you take enough and they can stop your breathing. If you take enough. Those are the four things that we care about.
Dr. Figg: And as you take more and more heroin that effect is more and more. It's terms that all the way on a one to one.
Dr. Figg: So bottom we use because it's a safer medication is a what we call a partial agonist, which means it flipped those switches partway instead of all the way
Dr. Figg: So because it doesn't flip that pleasure switch all the way it will stop the withdrawal, but it won't tend to have a high that people get with other things like heroin or morphine or something else.
Dr. Figg: It is a pain reliever. So we use it for pain sometimes, although it's not quite to the extent that morphine or something like that is a pain reliever.
Dr. Figg: It does not turn off your consciousness quite the way heroin or something like that does so it doesn't tend to not people out and it has a ceiling effect, beyond which more does not do anything.
Dr. Figg: So it's very, very difficult to overdose on which means it won't stop raining. So it's a safer medication that aspect, but the most important things
Alex’s iPhone: It will stop.
With all
Dr. Figg: The take buprenorphine when it attaches to the receptor in your brain. It holds on tighter than other things do.
Dr. Figg: And what that means is if you're already on Suboxone. I mean, you take something else like heroin, the heroin will come along and it won't be able to have the effect
Dr. Figg: Because the Suboxone is already there and the heroin will kick it out helps block the effect of the things that people have been using in the past, which helps decrease those addictive behaviors, because sometimes we see
Dr. Figg: Occidental College clean their room and find something and go, well, I'm going to go ahead and use that. And the nice thing about Suboxone is that even if they take that you won't have
Dr. Figg: To reinforce that behavior.
Alex’s iPhone: So yeah, honestly. So, so
Alex’s iPhone: The one big difference, I think, is the difference between Suboxone and sub sub you text or whatever.
Alex’s iPhone: Yeah, so I was definitely looking to get some boxing because like the strips, because I know that, again, like you just said that if I'm having a weak moment and I go and try to use it won't work.
Dr. Figg: Right, yes, which
Alex’s iPhone: Which is a huge plus for me because honestly, I mean so much so, my friends, whenever I've been able to get when I say Suboxone I mean step you text, pretty much.
Alex’s iPhone: Essentially it like if I have a weak moment and I go use it'll still work so
Alex’s iPhone: Kind of trying to like
Alex’s iPhone: play against that, if that makes any sense.
Dr. Figg: So there's more than one. There's the physical dependence on opiates. There's also the social and the behavioral aspects of it. And so that's why we're going to talk about some workers as well but
Dr. Figg: Suboxone, it has to medications and buprenorphine which is the opiate that blocks the action of other things that stops a withdrawal.
Dr. Figg: And then it's also gotten a lot. So, in which is an abuse deterrent. So you've taken it before so they understand that these things have to be dissolved under your tongue. Yeah.
Dr. Figg: And you dissolve them under your tongue, you get to buprenorphine through the veins under your tongue, and it's well absorbed and you don't get the no locks on which would put you into withdrawal. If you've got it.
Dr. Figg: But if you melted crush it shoot it snorted smoke and take it some other way that you're not supposed to, you end up getting a whole bunch of the locks on which puts you into withdrawal.
Dr. Figg: So, it prevents people from misusing the medications and we use Suboxone the combination for people with a history of addiction, because it does help promote their recover.
Dr. Figg: If you swallow the film or if you chew up the tablet and swallow it. You really either either medication, you don't get any of either medications. So it's like taking nothing. I just want you to understand the medication works.
So it doesn't fall under the tongue.
Dr. Figg: You're taking up to two grams of heroin. How much Suboxone did you use in the past when you took it.
Alex’s iPhone: Honestly, I mean whatever I could get my hands on.
Alex’s iPhone: Usually, that'd be like a strip a day, at the very least, with the amount that I use.
Alex’s iPhone: Okay, yeah. I mean, if
Alex’s iPhone: You're
Dr. Figg: Taking two and three scripts today.
Alex’s iPhone: Yeah, probably.
Dr. Figg: You were or no.
Alex’s iPhone: No, I mean, most likely, yeah. That mean that's probably what's going to help like to two strips. I mean,
Alex’s iPhone: Most likely
Dr. Figg: So it's not there because Suboxone works differently than other opiates. There's not a calculator. I can use to go, you are using this much. This is going to be the right dose. It's very in
Dr. Figg: The correct dose when we're trying to help promote your recovery is that it's high enough that you're not in withdrawal.
Dr. Figg: And you're not having cravings to use other things and it's low enough that you're not having side effects from the medication itself because it's a medication as they can have side effects, just like any other medication.
Dr. Figg: The main side effects that we see from Suboxone are the same side effects that we'd see with taking too much of other opiates, so it can cause abdominal pain, Niger drowsiness, dry mouth, constipation, things like that.
Dr. Figg: Okay, we don't want you to the side effects, but we want the dose to be high enough that it helps prevent you from feeling like you need anything else.
Alex’s iPhone: Okay, yeah.
Dr. Figg: Let's talk about the way quite hard work. So we are recovery Promotion Program where recovery program, not just an addiction treatment program.
Dr. Figg: We are centered around weekly support groups. So we put you into a group. It's kind of like an NA or a meeting with other people who have had similar issues and are at various stages in their recovery.
Dr. Figg: It's about an hour long meets the same time every week it's led by a therapist or counselor who has a history and addiction treatment.
Dr. Figg: And there's usually some kind of topic about relapse rule engine or stress management or coping skills or spirituality or something along those lines that help people.
Dr. Figg: In their recovery and every meeting starts with a check in with the doctor to make sure that
Dr. Figg: You are on the right dose, you're not having side effects, you're not having cravings. If your questions are answered that you have enough medication.
Dr. Figg: And some people are in various stages of tapering if they've been, you know, stable in recovery. And so, you know, checking in with the doctor to manage things like that. Does that all make sense. Yep. Cool.
Dr. Figg: So that's the way Brian heart works. So we would we would find a time in the week for one of our support groups that works for you.
Dr. Figg: And
Dr. Figg: My schedule. I have openings in my Tuesday 3pm or Thursday 3pm groups with one of those times work well.
Alex’s iPhone: Are there any ones that are a little bit earlier, by any chance,
Dr. Figg: I don't, but other doctors mine.
Alex’s iPhone: Okay, alright. No worries. I mean, I'll
Alex’s iPhone: I'll deal with it. What would you say Tuesday and Thursday.
Dr. Figg: Tuesday or Thursday at 3pm.
Alex’s iPhone: Okay, apply do Tuesday.
Dr. Figg: Tuesday at 3pm work well for
Alex’s iPhone: Yeah okay well
Dr. Figg: Sometimes life circumstances change people change jobs or move or something like that. And if we, you know, if you in the future needs to change which group you're in because of life circumstances change. That's okay.
Alex’s iPhone: Well, that
Dr. Figg: Nothing's permanent like that. Just, just say no. But let's start with the Tuesday 3pm. Okay. Um, you have then 24 hours since your last use and you're starting to go into withdrawal.
Dr. Figg: It's important to talk about when you take Suboxone you need to be in some level of withdrawal because like I said, it grabs hold of that.
Dr. Figg: Tighter, which means if there's anything in your system, it will kick it out and put you into a much worse withdrawal. It's called precipitated withdrawal and we don't want that to happen. We want you to feel better and not being which are all which takes a boxer
Dr. Figg: So I think we're in that situation where it's going to work well for you right now.
Dr. Figg: What we're going to do is let's make sure we have a current pharmacy for
Dr. Figg: I have a CVS on Bancroft road, is that correct for you.
Alex’s iPhone: Yep. Great.
Dr. Figg: So what we're gonna do is we're going to start you a low dose, you're going to, it's going to be an eight milligram film or tablet on both
Dr. Figg: Suboxone is the brand name. There's a generic of it becomes as a tablet. Which one gets dispense
Dr. Figg: Pretty much depends entirely on your insurance and what they'll pay for
Alex’s iPhone: About it.
Dr. Figg: So all right, I'll write the script. If you prefer the film's over the tablets. I'll write the script that way, but
Dr. Figg: We don't pay for the brand name. We only pay for the generic, you're going to want to let them for cost issues dispense the generic
Alex’s iPhone: About it, since it's very expensive medication, unfortunately. Okay. All right.
Dr. Figg: What you're going to do is you're going to start with half of the tablet or film.
Dr. Figg: To dissolve on your tongue, because like I said, there's not a perfect conversion from what you were taking to what you need. You're going to start half
Dr. Figg: You're going to take that let it dissolve it takes about 510 minutes to fully this all we don't eat, drink or smoke for 10 to 15 minutes afterwards. So make sure you absorb the medication.
Dr. Figg: That wait at least an hour to evaluate. Do I feel better and my still having withdrawal symptoms. If you feel better and stop. That was the dose that you needed to get you out of withdrawal and maintain you out of the draw, if you still feel bad. Then you take another half
Okay.
Dr. Figg: And then you wait another hour use about read again you know in my soul. Draw or do I feel better, up to a maximum of one and a half tablets or strips.
On the first day.
Dr. Figg: You should have gotten an email from our care coordinator has an induction protocol that's very nice and has pictures to you know make things simple and straightforward. So there's no confusion about the way we slowly go up on us. Okay.
Alex’s iPhone: Okay, well,
Dr. Figg: But so I just want to make sure you understand. Start with a low dose, because just because you were taking more heroin differently.
Alex’s iPhone: Okay. Alright, cool.
Dr. Figg: Alright, that I think is we have a group for you. We're going to send your prescription right now for your medication, so that we can get you out to start feeling better.
Dr. Figg: Prescription right now. I encourage you to wait at least an hour.
Dr. Figg: And then call the pharmacy and find out if they were able to fill it. Because sometimes they're going to go, Oh, no, we need a forum for the insurance or whatever or we don't have the medication or something like that. If you there was some issue.
Dr. Figg: Virtual clinic, which is who you talked to before me.
Dr. Figg: Okay, my desk, have a medical office right they're going to be able to solve the overwhelming majority of issues.
Dr. Figg: Anything that I have to take care of don't relate to me. But if you have issues getting the medication, please call them right away so that we can work on it. Oh.
Alex’s iPhone: Ok, ok. Okay.
Dr. Figg: Alright, cool. That's all I had. Alex What, what questions or concerns you have right now.
Alex’s iPhone: No, that's I'm just, I'm just looking to get started. That's it. Okay.
Dr. Figg: I'm going to issue your prescription. We're going to look for you next Tuesday at 3pm. You're going to call the virtual clinic about 20 minutes before three okay and and they'll give you the number changes every week. So don't give you the numbers.
Alex’s iPhone: So the group is also virtual yes and
Dr. Figg: Yeah, we do all the, all of our stuff through zoom like this.
Alex’s iPhone: Okay, okay. Yeah.
Dr. Figg: Does that make sense will not work okay for you.
Alex’s iPhone: Yep. That makes perfect sense. Oh.
Dr. Figg: All right, good. All right, I'm an issue, your prescription. Let us know if you have any issues and we'll do our best to work with you will look for you at 3pm next Tuesday. Okay.
Alex’s iPhone: Thank you so much.
Dr. Figg: Alex, it was nice to meet you there. You take care
Alex’s iPhone: Bye bye.
Dr. Figg: All right, and I pulled his Jewish report during the visit and reviewed it with him and he had prescriptions for Xanax and
Dr. Figg: And condemning compound which is I probably Adderall or Ritalin know probably our last year, about a year ago.
Dr. Figg: And then I reviewed his as am an Esper questionnaires and she has turned for addiction addictive behaviors, but not for alcohol or other things right now.
Dr. Figg: He's going to be in a 3pm of the abuse disorder on Tuesday group on Tuesday, and I'm going to issue him a prescription for Suboxone like now.
Dr. Figg: And he had a normal mental status exam. He was in a dark room and had his hood on
Dr. Figg: Which probably is because the lights are hurting us is because he's in the beginning stages of withdrawal.
And he was restless during the
Interview. He kept getting up in the morning here.
Dr. Figg: So the restlessness should be under Melanie honest mental status.